# NAQA Filtration Project

**Languages: [English](README.md) | [Українська](README_UA.md)**

## Overview

The project aims to develop a Python-based filtration system for the accreditation cases managed by the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. The primary purpose of this system is to provide a flexible and efficient way to filter accreditation cases based on specified criteria.

The filtration system is designed to allow users to define various criteria for filtering accreditation cases, enabling them to narrow down the dataset to specific cases of interest. This system will be a valuable tool for analyzing accreditation cases, conducting research, and making data-driven decisions.

Key Goals Achieved:
1. **Flexibility**: The system offers a highly flexible filtration mechanism, empowering users to specify diverse criteria for filtering accreditation cases. Whether filtering by program ID, request number, EDEBO ID, or other attributes, users can easily customize the filtration process to suit their specific needs.
2. **Efficiency**: The optimization efforts have paid off, resulting in a blazing-fast filtration system. Even when dealing with substantial datasets of accreditation cases, the system provides rapid responses. The carefully implemented optimization techniques dramatically reduce the time required to gather essential information for subsequent analysis.
3. **Usability**: The user interface is designed with usability in mind. Users can effortlessly input their desired filtration criteria and obtain filtered results in a user-friendly format. The system's intuitive design ensures that users can quickly navigate and leverage its powerful features.
4. **Logging and Debugging**: A robust logging mechanism tracks every step of the filtration process. From the criteria used for filtering to the status of each case, the system provides comprehensive logs, facilitating transparency and simplifying debugging.
5. **Documentation**: Comprehensive documentation accompanies the system, guiding users through installation, configuration, and utilization. This well-structured documentation empowers users to easily get started with the filtration system, making it an invaluable resource for users of all levels of expertise.
6. **Extensibility**: The system's modular architecture enables easy extension and adaptation to accommodate future changes in accreditation data or evolving user requirements. This design approach ensures that the system remains flexible and capable of growing alongside the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance's needs.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Setting Up the Project Locally(Installation)](#setting-up-the-project-locallyinstallation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Logging](#logging)

## Project Structure

The project is organized into several key directories and files, each serving a specific purpose in the implementation of the filtration system. Here's a high-level overview of the project structure:

1. `app.py`: The main entry point of the application, responsible for managing the filtration process and user interaction through a console interface.
2. `accreditation_filter_constants.py`: Defines constants related to filtering criteria used in the accreditation system.
3. `interface.py`: Handles logic related to the program's console interface, commands, and text.
4. `logging_config.py`: Configures logging settings for the project.
5. `manipulate_csv.py`: Contains logic for working with the CSV file generated by the filtration system.
6. `prepare_filter_criteria.py`: Manages the input of filtration criteria from the user and prepares them for filtration.
7. `project_settings.py`: Stores project-specific settings, such as default knowledge areas and CSV file names.
8. `request_formation.py`: Handles requests made in the filtration system, including API interactions.
9. `response_parser.py`: Parses information from JSON responses.
10. `requirements.txt`: Lists the required packages and dependencies for the project.

Directories:

1. `logs/`: The directory where log files are stored. Log files, such as `log_2023-08-12_21-39-44.log`, are generated during the execution of the system and provide detailed information about the filtration process and any errors encountered.
2. `output_filtered_data/`: The directory where the `filtered_accreditation_cases.csv` file is created. This CSV file contains the results of the filtration process, including the filtered accreditation cases that match the specified criteria. The `output_filtered_data/` directory is the destination for the final output file, providing an organized location for the filtered data.

The project structure demonstrates clear separation of concerns, with each module responsible for a specific aspect of the filtration process. This modular design allows for easier maintenance, testing, and future extensions as needed.

## Dependencies

The project relies on several external libraries and tools to function properly. These dependencies are listed in the `requirements.txt` file, which is used for easy installation using Python's package manager, `pip`. Ensure that you have the appropriate version of Python installed before proceeding with the installation of dependencies.

Required Python Version:
- Python 3.x (Minimum version: 3.6)

### Libraries and Tools

To install the necessary libraries and tools, you can use the following command in your project's virtual environment:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setting Up the Project Locally(Installation)

To run the accreditation filtration system locally, you'll need to follow these steps to create a virtual environment and install the necessary dependencies.

### Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you have the following prerequisites installed on your system:

1. Python 3.x: Ensure that you have Python 3.x installed on your machine. You can check the version by running `python3 --version` in the terminal.
2. Git: Install Git if it's not already installed. Git is necessary for cloning the project repository. You can download Git from the [official Git website](https://git-scm.com/downloads).

### Steps

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ivanCodegod/naqa.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
```bash
cd naqa
```

3. Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended):
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```
This command will create a virtual environment named "venv" in the project directory.

4. Activate the virtual environment:

- On macOS and Linux:

    ```bash
    source venv/bin/activate
    ```

- On Windows:

    ```bash
    venv\Scripts\activate
    ```
  
Activating the virtual environment ensures that the project's dependencies won't interfere with your system-wide Python packages.

5. Install project dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
This command installs the necessary libraries listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

## Usage

Once you've set up the project environment and installed the dependencies, you can run the accreditation filtration system using the following steps:

1. Run the accreditation filtration system:
```bash
python app.py 
```
This command will execute the filtration system. It may take some time to complete depending on the data being filtered.

That's it! You now have the project set up locally in a virtual environment, and you can run the accreditation filtration system by executing `app.py` without any arguments. The system will use the default criteria or any input provided during the execution.

## Logging

The system utilizes a flexible logging mechanism that allows you to capture and manage detailed information about the system's execution, making it easier to troubleshoot issues, analyze performance, and monitor the system's behavior over time. The `LoggingConfigurator` class provided in the code allows you to configure various aspects of the logging process.

### Handling Different Log Levels

The current configuration sets the log level to `DEBUG`, which means that all log messages at the `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, and `CRITICAL` levels will be captured. Depending on your needs, you can adjust the log level to capture only messages at a certain severity level.
